Dear all, on this New Year's Day, I respectfully offer my greetings to the
entire congregation. I'm reorganizing this
poem to
address the concerns of
all of us
Buddhists in the Six Harmonies practice club. The poem's content is meant to guide us, as Buddhists in
our practice of
reducing greed and anger. The
poem begins
with the idea of ​​the
constant cycle of
life, the
cycle of birth,
aging, sickness, and death. When we
encounter good deeds, we do good; when we
encounter misfortune, we do good. There
is no discernment
because we have our
own thoughts and ideas. We don't know how to think, we
don't know how to reason;
there is no one to open our minds to
liberation. Therefore, we drift aimlessly through
life,
poverty, being
born here and there, all
without karmic retribution.
When we have money, we
disregard it,
we
do evil and unwholesome things, we indulge in
debauchery,
addiction, and
wickedness.
We think that
we live one life and
die,
but we don't realize...
Leaving this body, we immediately receive
another body, just like that other body. That is the result
of the actions we performed in
our previous lives. So, knowing this, we
know that whether we are rich or poor, beautiful or
ugly, and our dwelling place may change,
but we have that person who, when
suffering, does not change; that person's
consciousness does not change, only their
physical form changes. It's like
waking up one
night not knowing who we are,
but before going to sleep, when we
wake up the next day, we still know. We
will overcome this, but
overcoming the cycle of birth and death is not
easy. Our Buddha, through his practice and guidance,
shows us one path: to
renounce worldly life and practice the Dharma,
to die. We reduce our attachments and
limit all the karmic causes that lead
us to create karma—the defilements of greed, anger, and
hatred—so that we can easily become better people.
However, as Buddhists,
we still have too many karmic connections, also due to
negative karmic connections from past lives, so we
cannot achieve liberation like those who have already attained liberation.
I am preparing to leave this life.
These ascetics, having emerged from their monastic lives, surely had their
minds already directed towards the path of
liberation.
We, as disciples of Buddha, in the
monastic community, must also aspire to
liberation.
When we are lay practitioners, we
must know
our duties, our responsibilities, and
our work. We can only uphold the
five precepts,
and occasionally, for one day a month or
a little more, we can only uphold the eight precepts.
Those who remain cannot continuously uphold these eight precepts for a year,
a month,
or ten days. If we do,
we
must leave the house. The
Patriarch said that we are free from all defilements and attachments. Legally speaking,
we are no longer bound by magic spells. We still have one
asset: our house.
Yes, if this house is damaged,
collapses due to external factors like an earthquake,
we will still be
summoned by the authorities or by people around us,
or if a car crashes into it, we will
still be called upon to resolve the issue.
Thus, we are still bound to the worldly
life of the ascetics.  From this perspective, we can think that
we have a day of practicing the Eight
Precepts, but in reality, it's just a practice run
because we are still bound by attachments and restrictions.
If we are a
family member at
home and someone is sick, and we
are practicing but we don't return, will
we be blamed? Will we be
troubled? Will we have peace of mind?
So, that's our karmic connection;
we haven't yet reached the right stage, and we feel sorrowful.
We must determine this, think
thoroughly, to understand our duty,
how to accumulate merit so that
we have the right karmic connection to leave and practice the Dharma, with the right karmic connection.
To overcome
this worldly attachment,
we only need to consider one element of karmic connection to
see that overcoming worldly attachment is
not something we can easily do.
When we understand this,
who knows their own responsibilities? Therefore,
we must know our responsibilities
so that we can firmly grasp our position and maintain our
stance.
Yes, if we don't know
our responsibilities, our karmic connection for
practice...  Regarding protecting the Three Jewels,
we will become lax, we will become
reckless, we will forget our duties,
we will forget our aspirations,
our authority is the path towards
transcending the mundane world,
producing mystical things, and transcending the three realms.
To have the full karmic conditions for this,
we must diligently
protect the Three Jewels, cultivate virtue, and
expand our wisdom so that at some
point, when we have the full conditions to
transcend, we will be a
diligent and
determined monk, overcoming the worldly obstacles and benefiting the mundane world.
This is the crucial point we need to
grasp. Fellow practitioners, be mindful like a
mountain climber. If you
leave before reaching the summit, you will
fall.
We cannot be
diligent now and lazy later to
reach the path
we have chosen. Therefore, if we are diligent, we must be
increasingly diligent in what
we need to think about.
When we think about our purpose,
we need to think about
our path so that we are never
led astray.
Yes, monks at the temple
are also human beings, made of flesh and blood
like us,
enduring the
harsh weather and
the desires in their hearts.
You see, monks, we must know
that we are the ones following in the footsteps of those who follow us.
When we protect the Three
Jewels, it's not
with money, but
with wisdom. Nguyen, the
master's intention,
the silence of the monks towards the
master, the
aspiration for supreme enlightenment... yes, yes, My
Tam,
from the moment of liberation, all people are filled with desires.
Inside, beneath this skin and flesh, there is nothing but the
heart. It's
very difficult, very arduous.
Storms and rain come, and some
people won't be able to complete
their path
because it's
very hard and arduous,
not just with the body.
We're just sitting at a table
– one delicious piece and one not-so-delicious piece. When
we pick up our chopsticks, which way will they point? They
should point towards the
delicious pieces, and
some people will point towards the less delicious ones.
Therefore, every word of "monk" in the heart is
always...  We must fight and
choose between worldly pleasures and endure hardships,
but this endurance allows
our minds to be at peace.
Our Buddhist followers have practiced for three
days, but in reality, our days
are far too blissful compared to the practice
of the monks because we only test
ourselves a little; it's
not a struggle in the mind
because we know that after three days
we will return to enjoying worldly pleasures. But the
monks, if they stay here, will forever
fight against greed, cutting off desires
without ever thinking that tomorrow they
will go out to enjoy worldly pleasures.
So that is the struggle,
the thinking, the determination to sever
desires, which is very difficult. But we, in reality, only have three
days, yet we still crave desires, and after
three days we return to enjoying them.
As Buddhist followers, it's truly true that having such a karmic
connection to practice,
we must be diligent, like that plum tree. It's
not just a matter of enduring the cold and frost; the
plum blossom easily emits its fragrance.
If we don't believe in diligence, we
will resolve the bonds of attachment
clearly.  That is the karmic retribution from
past lives that we have
accumulated. As
you know, I know how to arrange household matters, how to let go of
attachments.
Yes, so that we can practice
like scientists, scholars,
astronomers.
Why do they have such wisdom? It is
also their karmic reward, because they have
accumulated merit and cultivated virtue. But they do not yet know
that there is a path that leads them to
eternally ending suffering.
Our Buddha, Shakyamuni,
has shown us that path.
Our teacher, who has a connection with us, is the
one who went before us, leading the great
Sangha, and guiding us. The
teacher is a role model, a
true lesson for us to follow.
I see that he has given up
fame, he has given up a promise in
life, he has dedicated his life to the Dharma.
When we study and
work at Ba Vang Pagoda,
he also
connects with all people
near and far. When they come to Ba Vang Pagoda, they all have a
good karmic connection with the Buddha's teachings
through ceremonies and
Vietnamese customs.  Here, we still have
this as an example for us to follow;
here is a venerable teacher for
us to pay homage to;
here is a monastic community for us to pay homage to, to make offerings, and to accumulate merit.
Yes, so that we may fulfill our aspirations. Yes, I
wish all our fellow practitioners
continued diligence this year.
[Music]